# SP24-Impact-Of-Motor-Travel-Method-On-Spatial-Mapping-And-Memory

## Engine and Application Requirements
### Unreal Engine 5
 - Download and install UE5.3.2, as the project was built and coded for this version

### Python
 - Download python version 3.11 and add it to your PATH

## Plugin Requirements for Unreal Engine 5
### External Plugins to Download
 - [VR Expansion](https://drive.google.com/file/d/104V1FrbI58LGB-3-5i0HOiOHYyjRwmec/view)
 - [Victory Plugin](https://www.mediafire.com/file/g0n7a4d35mf25p9/VictoryPlugin53.zip/file)

### Unreal Engine 5 Builting Plugins to Enable
 - "Json Blueprint Utilities"

### Installing the Plugins
 - The external plugins need to be separately downloaded and put into your UE5.3/Engine/Plugins folder.
 - To install the builtin plugins, first create a blank project, then in the editor go to Edit > Plugins and search for the plugin(s) to enable
 - Once the plugin(s) have been enabled, reload your UE5 editor and load the Locomotion_Sim project.

## Running the Unreal Engine 5 VR Experience
 - Make sure you have all of the plugins installed, as you cannot properly open the Locomotion_Sim project without having everything setup.
 - Next, make sure that your headset of choice is properly connected to your computer before starting the Unreal Engine project, otherwise the VR preview mode may not be available to run initially.  In our case we used an Oculus Quest 2 which required the Meta Quest Link application to be running in the background.
 - After confirming your headset is properly connected, open the Unreal Engine project using Unreal Engine version 5.3
 - Once the project is open, you have a couple of options for changing the settings of the map and visual effects applied to the user:
   - To change the map's layout, you need to navigate to the `BP_WaveFunctionCollapse` blueprint in `...\Locomotion_Sim\Content\Locomotion_Content\Blueprints` and search for the `RandomStreamSeed` in variables.  After changing the seed, compile the blueprint and the map orientation should change accordingly.
   - To change the visual effect applied to the user, navigate to the `VR_Pawn` blueprint in `...\Locomotion_Sim\Content\VRTemplate\Blueprints` and search for the ...

## Generating the 2D Map of The Test Environment
### Setting up your Venv
 - All python files are located in Locomotion_Sim > Python
 - If on windows, run the setup_venv.bat file to setup and install the venv and necessary libraries

### Generating the 2D Map
 - Run the generate_2d_map.bat file every time you want to create a new 2D image of the 3D test environment.
 - This will create a new, unique image from the current map_output.json file.
 - Notably, whenever a new 3D test environment is generated by running the Unreal Engine 5 project, "map_output.json" will be overwritten.
